---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

# Lessons from The Cathedral and The Bazaar

## "Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away."

This quote highlights the importance in simplicity and purpose in a codebase. When working with software, there is no need to add fluff. If only the necessary parts of the code remain intact, it becomes much simpler to navigate and to extend. Future developers will not have to question anything's purpose and will easily be able to add new features.


## "Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong."

If you have a poor understanding of a problem, there will always be a ceiling for your implementation. Regardless of how brilliant your hacks and solutions are to build on that implementation, they will always be bottlenecked by your original approach. The best solutions will always come from a good understanding of the problem and good knowledge of what needs to be done. Sometimes a completely different approach is needed, rather than improving on an old version.


# Personal Progress Towards Team Project

This week we're still familiarizing ourselves with the codebase and seeing what sorts of issues we can tackle. I created a Google spreadsheet to organize different issues we might be able to work on. Most of the week consisted of playing around with a few issues and getting a few development kinks out of the way. All the changes I made would disappear whenever we ran Caprine. I realized that this was because Electron prioritizes the downloaded version over our local copy. Uninstalling Caprine and only running it locally through npm fixed that problem.  